Adding initial set of content for "useless box" work shop. (#336)
NuevoFoundation/workshops: content/english/useless-box/learning-concepts.md

---
title: "Learning concepts"
description: ""
draft: true
weight: 3
---

> # How do we make a "useless" box? Let's learn some basic concepts first!

Reviewer: For accessibility, please do not use any # (h1) headers 

```suggestion
## How do we make a "useless" box? Let's learn some basic concepts first!
```

> ## How do we make a "useless" box? Let's learn some basic concepts first!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do we make a "useless" box? Let's learn some basic concepts first!
```

Author: are you suggesting to remove the heading here? I'm fine if that's preferred, but wanted to double-check

### What will power the box? Batteries!

> A battery is a chemical pump for electrons(*)! There is a pair of chemical reactions that pump electrons from anode to cathode. 

Reviewer: Please expand on what is an anode and a cathode

```suggestion
A battery is a chemical pump for electrons! There is a pair of chemical reactions that pump electrons from the anode to the cathode. 
```

The battery **voltage** is the potential energy given to electrons as a result of this pump.  

> ((\*)An electron is a stable subatomic particle with a charge of negative electricity, found in all atoms and acting as the primary carrier of electricity in solids.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{%notice tip%}}
An electron is a stable subatomic particle with a charge of negative electricity, found in all atoms and acting as the primary carrier of electricity in solids.)
{{%/notice%}}
```

Author: @ozhang22 can I just include that string you provided? what interprets that text?

> You may be familiar with this type of batteries, that power many of our devices (or toys):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may be familiar with AA (double-A) batteries that power many of our devices (or toys):
```

> ![double AA battery](img/regularBattery.jpg)

Reviewer: For all pages except _index.md, we need to prepend the image URL with ../

```suggestion
![double AA battery](../img/regularBattery.jpg)
```

Voltage, measured in "volts", is always a measure of "the difference in potential energy" between two points. For example: charge at the top of the battery have 1.5V higher energy than the bottom.

What happens when you attach a light to a battery? **Current** flows.
![double AA battery drawing connected to a light blub to power it](../img/batteryPoweringLightBulb.png)

But what is flowing?

Electrical charge. **Charge** is what makes components electrical. Charge can flow/move in material that conducts electricity, like wires. 

> Moving charge is called **current**. Its unit is the Ampere, usually called amps (A). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving charge is called **current**. We measure current in Amperes, usually called amps (A). 
```

## How do we make a "useless" box? Let's learn some basic concepts first!

### What will power the box? Batteries!

> A battery is a chemical pump for electrons! There is a pair of chemical reactions that pump electrons from [anode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anode) (negative end of the battery) to [cathode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cathode) (positive end of the battery). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A battery is a chemical pump for electrons! There is a pair of chemical reactions that pump electrons from the [anode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anode) (negative end of the battery) to  the [cathode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cathode) (positive end of the battery). 
```
